# OpenGL-3D-Scene
CS 330 OpenGL 3D Scene Development

The main object we created in the 3D OpenGL scene is a sauce platter based upon the initial image submitted for a proposal. The object itself appears like a basic rectangle with multiple sections carved out of it in the center. This object is created through a series of triangles developing the angles and formality of the platter. It then uses additional triangles to develop a sphere like shape in the center of it that separates the previous triangles in a difference of dimension. I wanted to develop this object in OpenGL as it possessed the concept of a single object developed with multiple shapes to replicate it from the image with corrective depth and precision. The plane object in the scene is used primarily as a reflective source and place holder for our platter. This separate object helps bring out platter to life in OpenGL as it supports the platter physically but also allows us to draw the light towards the sides and edges of the object. 
	With OpenGL, these objects were able to be created through the sizing and positioning of the individual vertices that made up the individual triangles. When we rendered the mesh of the object, each of the vertices are individually mapped to form the object we desired. After the objects were created, we wanted to use a Camera object to manipulate the scene and allow the user to view the entire object from any angle. The Camera.h header script uses basic physical movements on the generated OpenGL Camera object to navigate the scene. Once the Camera module was setup, we were able to handle the inputs generated from the individual user and create movements based on which keys were being pressed. The W,A,S,D keys are used to move left, right, forward, and backwards. We then bound the keys Q and E to move up and down vertically in the scene. The type of light used in the scene is diffuse lighting which comes from a singular direction and has the greatest impact on a single area. I found that white lighting would be the best options for a lighting color as it would be able to reflect from the dark plane created below the object and handle well with the darker textures applied onto the platter. While having the texture on the object in the scene, the magnification from the lighting can be enhanced for the quality of the texture based on its positioning and color. With the platter being the main object texture in the scene, I found it more effective to keep it with a darker texture for light to illuminate its details. If the texture was to be brighter, we could also manipulate the style and direction of the lighting to compliment that option. The main light is positioned in an isometric based view, highlighting the details of the object from a single side. The main primary custom function that was developed in this scene was the camera view switching positioning based on key binding. We bound the ‘O’ key to manipulate the perspective view between options when toggled while viewing the scene. This function is reusable with the Camera.H module script, that can be later implemented into other 3D OpenGL scenes that also utilize a camera object for viewing the desired scene. 


How do I approach designing software?
What new design skills has your work on the project helped you to craft?
What design process did you follow for your project work?
How could tactics from your design approach be applied in future work?
How do I approach developing programs?
What new development strategies did you use while working on your 3D scene?
How did iteration factor into your development?
How has your approach to developing code evolved throughout the milestones, which led you to the project’s completion?
How can computer science help me in reaching my goals?
How do computational graphics and visualizations give you new knowledge and skills that can be applied in your future educational pathway?
How do computational graphics and visualizations give you new knowledge and skills that can be applied in your future professional pathway?

I approached the initial design of the OpenGl Scene software through the usage of the foundational methods needed to operate a single object in the scene. Following through with multiple objects, since my first one was modular, I was able to replicate it and later modify its shape to determine the scene I needed to develop. An important design skill I learned in the project was how individual objects are created through the replication of various triangles being rendered at once. The tactics from my design in this project can be applied to future work as it reminds the reader of how import modular code is in order to allow it to be re-used elsewhere. Iteration was a dramatic factor in my development while creating multiple objects. It was important to recognize the duplicates to follow an OOP based methodology when deriving multiple object styles from one. Computer science and this class itself has helped me push my limits and get closer to my goal of being a software developer by requiring out of the box thinking in order to get multiple objects in the scenes to render properly yet separately. 
